hello friends welcome back to this
series of socket programming
and from today onwards i will try to put
some new videos
around socket programming so that we can
understand few of the apis which are
used in the socket programming
in the real world application
development these apis are used
because in our socket server and socket
client program
we have mostly used the hard coded
values for the server name
for the server ip but in real world
application
you need to understand the use of these
apis get host name
you need to understand the significance
of this wss startup
and you need to understand this set sock
opt so i am going to discuss about these
two things today first i will discuss
about gate host name
so let's see quickly what does this do
this get host name returns an integer
returns an integer which returns whether
the call to gate host name was
successful or not
and what it actually does this gate host
name
can give you a name of the machine
your name your machine name which is
which will be stored in this the first
argument right so for that you need to
create
a character array str host name
you need to write something like this
and the length of the
machine name can be 32
and that is why i have given 32 here you
can provide more than 32 but i have
given here 32
right so gate hostname i am just going
to give the name gate str host name
and then i'm just going to provide the
length
what will be the maximum length what the
maximum length will be
for this name that we are going to take
in this str hostname
and then what we are going to do if an
ret is smaller than 0
then we will print
that our call failed
call paid
otherwise in case android returns
0 which means that the call was
successful then in that case
it will return 0 and we can see the name
of the
machine name of the host where my
application is running
okay name of the host
and there you need to go sdr host name
so you just need to run it
just build it
and just do an f5 you can see that the
call has been failed why this failed
let me explain you i have explained it
earlier as well in the very first video
when i was starting the socket
programming for server
and i hope you still remember that thing
so
the reason is that i have not used this
wss startup
so to make any socket api call working
you first need to call this function wsa
startup
so for that i need to do thing you do
two things wsa data
w and then you need to just call wsa
startup
and here you need to pass two arguments
make word
i'm using to provide the version minimum
and
max versions and then address of w
and this function also returns 0 or
minus 1 minus 1 if it
if it fails and 0 if it passes
if it is successful right i'm not going
to check it because i know that
this will work fine so for a good
practice you can write the code like
this
into an r80 and then you can check
whether the return value is smaller than
0 or equal to 0.
now let's see if it works fine or not so
let's see start debugging and let's see
what is the output
this time it should give me the name of
the host
okay so this time it has given me the
name of the host so
the thing is that you need to use
wss startup function call before any api
call
you cannot expect any api call to work
fine until you call wss startup
in windows right please remember that
this is for windows only
in case you are not using windows you
are writing a your application for the
unix platform or the linux platform then
in that case you do not need to call
this ws
startup there is no need of this wss
startup but in case of windows if you
are writing your
socket programming for the windows
platform then in that case you must need
to call this wss startup before any
socket api call
okay so let's see let's verify what
what is the name of my laptop
on which i am recording this so yes the
name of the laptop is this
which is again same as my application
return
right so let's close this so
this is the significance of wss startup
and this is how you can use the gate
hostname you can use the gate hostname
function
when you are creating your own
application rather than putting the
hard-coded ip because that is not a good
practice at all
so you can get the hostname of your
application and using the other apis
which i will discuss in the later videos
using those apis like i think the name
of the api is get host by name so using
that you can get the ip addresses
so using those apis and using this api
you can create
the ip address you can get the ip
address of your own
server and then you can use those bind
and
connect calls and listen calls for for
the server okay
so as of now when i created the demo for
the client and server you might have
seen
that i have used the hard coded values
or the
macro like in adder any there was a
micro in editor any if you remember
in editor underscore any so if you
remember that we have used
for the server side program so those
things are not
not the good practice at all when you
are writing a good
socket server programming so you need to
know about these
apis so that is why i have just decided
to
[Music]
create some videos around these apis
okay so this was all about the gate host
name
and now i will discuss about this set
stock opt
okay so to
not waste more time i have just written
this piece of code for you already
so i will just copy it and i will just
paste it
so just to save the time i have written
it already so wsa data wss startup all
these things are fine these things you
already know
if you don't know you need to go to my
uh you need to go to the
previous videos or you can say the first
or second video where i have explained
all these things
right i have not explained this thing
said sock opt right
and i have called this bind and listen
here right so i'm just going to explain
you
about the sets of what it what it does
okay so
to ex to understand what is the purpose
of state stock opt
uh if you want to study this thing in
detail you can go to the msdn site and
you can just type it says opt and you
can see the details
but i'm not going in that much detail
i'm just going to tell you
uh on a broader perspective that
how this call is used and what is the
purpose of using this function this api
right so let me give you an example i am
just going to
comment it comment the call to search
sock opt
right and let's see one scenario and
with that scenario you can understand
that why
we should use it sockopt ok suppose
there is
a there is a server application that i
am going to write
and if i am writing a server application
then i need to bind my
bind my socket to a particular address
to a particular port address
and then i just need to start listening
to that particular port for the
incoming connection from the clients
okay so
this is the port number on which my
server is listening
right is it possible for the other
server
or any other application which is
trying to which is trying to listen to
the new
connections from the client on the same
port will it be allowed
right will it be allowed or not we are
going to see that
the answer is the simple answer is that
no you cannot allow
two servers or you can say the same
instance of one
say two instances of the same server to
listen to the same port and bind to the
same port
right the simple answer is that this one
and
the more detailed answer is that yes we
have an api
which is called set sock opt using this
api
we can set our server we can provide the
option to our server to let other
servers
or to let other instance of the same
server to listen to the same port
okay so first let's see if we can
listen if our application server can
listen to the new clients on the same
port
if two servers which are running on the
same port
will they be able to listen to the same
port
for the new connections or not let's see
that
so just press f5 and let's see
what happens so this one
is listening let me just introduce some
more code
so that we are able to see some output
so here i am just going to write like
bind successful
the bind
successful and here also i am going to
provide an else part
and here i will provide the lesson
was successful
okay so let's see what happens so builds
build solution and then we will just run
it
so press f5 it will start debugging so
bind successful and listen successful
let's go to the
path where the same application exe has
been placed socket server has been
placed here
and here also i'm going to run the same
application
right so the second instance of the same
server
here the bind and listen both fail right
why because we cannot listen to the same
port again
and again right if we want to allow it
to happen
then in that case we just need to do
this we just need to
call this function set sock opt this set
saw cop takes the first
argument as socket the second argument
has the level of the socket
soul socket i have provided here you can
go to the details of this uh
these values or other options on the
msdn
but in this video i'm not going to
explain them in detail
the next one is the option like how you
can how you want to use this set stock
opt
the instruction to the state sockopt is
provided by this argument so here i have
provided the instruction that i want to
reuse
the port address i want the others the
other servers to other server to reuse
this port address
right and the next argument is this one
you need to remember this one opt value
is zero and the length of this is
of size of opt value i just need to
provide the address of length
type cast it to const characteristic and
the last argument is the length itself
right so opt value is that what is the
significance of opt value
if i provide it to 1 then it means that
other servers will not only be able to
bind and listen to the same port
but they will be also able to connect to
the new connections connect
will they will be able to allow the new
connections to connect
new client to connect to this port right
so there are two things one is you can
bind to you
one server other server can bind to one
of the ports
the same port on which you are listening
and the other thing is that you can
connect as well so there are two things
if we provide one
then in that case we allow both the
servers the other servers can listen to
the
same port and they can also accept the
connection but if we provide zero then
in that case
the other servers can only bind and
listen to the port
but they cannot accept a new connection
okay so this this value has this
significance right so as of now i am
going to provide it 1
and we will test it with 0 as well right
so i hope you are able to understand
what is the significance of this value
and let's see again what this
program does if i run it again just need
to comment it i just need to remove this
because android has already been defined
so let's press f5
so the first instance as usual is going
to run fine
it will show me the bind successful and
the lesson successful
now let's see the other instance
open the command prompt and just do
the socket server.exe and you can see
that the second instance as well
is giving me bind successful and listen
successful so
this was one of the uses of this set
sock opt
similarly there are many other uses
right
if i go to the definition of this reuse
editor you can see that there are many
other values
for the option flag per socket you can
debug the connection you can reuse the
connection that i have
you can reuse the port address that i
have just shown you you can
provide an option to keep alive the
connections you can provide an option to
broadcast the things you can
allow the uh socket to use the low
loopback
right bypass hardware and possible if
when possible
and then out of bound data if you want
to receive then you need to provide this
one so
anything you if you want to enable or
disable explicitly
you can use set stock opt right so i
have just shown you
one use which is mostly done by most of
the applications
uh by the programmers right so i hope
you are able to understand the state
states
option here right if i let's see with
zero as well
right so with zero as well it will be
able to run perfectly fine because
we are not going to connect anything
that connection thing
from the client we will display we will
demonstrate in some other video in the
coming videos
okay so let's see again what happens so
the bind is successful listen is
successful
and let's come to the debug folder where
my exe is
created so let's see again binance
lesson is successful right so i hope you
understood this
and in the next video in the coming
videos or in the next video itself i
will try to
demonstrate this one as well when i will
provided zero then a new connection from
the client it should not
connect it connect to it and if i will
provide it one then the other server
will it
will be able to connect to the new
clients on the same port
right so that thing we will discuss in
the next video so till then have a nice
day bye bye and please like subscribe my
channel and give me the feedback if you
need something else to understand
and please share share these videos with
your friends if you find that these
videos are really good
good and useful right so we will meet
soon
till then have a nice day and